There's two more data types
that I just wanna talk about,
just at a very high level.
I'm not gonna show you how to
operate on them but you can go,
I left links in the docs here that
you can go check out how to use them.
The first of them is HyperLogLog,
which I just love the name.
So it's often abbreviated HLLs.
So in another one of my courses, the four
semesters of computer science part 2,
I talk about a thing called Bloom filters.
So Bloom filters these kind of things
where you can add things to it and
they're very fast for lookups but
they have a margin of error.
This is great for
extremely large data sets
where you have a tolerance for
false positives.
So HyperLogLogs are actually that same
idea implemented inside of Redis.
It doesn't use Bloom filters it uses
something called the HyperLogLog.
I don't know why they're called that.
Did I put that in there?
No, I didn't.
So anyway, you can probably
go search through the docs.
It's another way of doing these
kind of Bloom filter type of ideas.
And the nice thing about
HyperLogLogs versus Bloom filters.
Bloom filters can have very
high margins of error up to 30,
20% something like that.
HyperLogLogs is like
a 0.8% margin of error.
So let me just give you an example of
when you might use something like this.
There's a great article from medium and
when they used Bloom
filters on medium.com of when to
recommend a new article to a user.
What they'll use a Bloom filter to say,
should I show this or
should I recommend this
article to this user?
And they'll use a Bloom filter to
determine whether or not they should or
should not show that to the person.
Whenever a user has read an article,
they don't wanna recommend to that
user again to read that same article.
So what they do is they add it to
this Bloom filter, or in this case,
they could add it to HyperLogLogs.
And sometimes it's going to tell them,
this user has read this article when in
fact that user hasn't read that article.
But the consequence of that false positive
is that that particular user won't be
recommended an article that they
haven't read before, which is fine.
Because they'll just get recommended
another article that they
definitely haven't read before.
It's kind of a strange thing.
But the trade off here is with having
some tolerance for that false positive,
you're able to go way faster and
have much less memory footprint.
So, that's what that is.
If it's a little weird, because it's
weird, someday in the future, you might
have that, it's like, this is the perfect
time I've been waiting my whole damn life.
I wanna use a HyperLogLog or
that moment may never come and
I'm sorry that you won't have such
a glorious moment with HyperLogLogs.
Okay, so that's HyperLogLogs.
The other thing is Streams.
These are much more newer to Redis and
I have not personally used them.
But it's basically something you can do
pub sub, so publish subscribe with Redis.
You can subscribe to a key where something
can be publishing new things to that key.
And then using a Stream, you can just be
continually reading things out of Redis.
So it's basically you can subscribe
into like a read only Stream and
get keys out of it.
So the example that they
use is like logging, right?
So if you're logging something from your
app service, you can log it to Redis.
And you can have something else
subscribing to that continual logging
of to that Stream.
So, another good thing to do that would
be like reading from an IoT device so
that if you have like a temperature
sensor, that's reading and
getting a new reading
like every three minutes.
You could be subscribed to that
temperature update through a Stream
in Redis.
I don't know if that's
how I would implement it.
Obviously I haven't so
I can't really tell you but
that is a data type that is
available to you in Redis as well.